Enable Boundary Layers in XYDelaunay and related MG Updates (#32517)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator.md

# XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator

## Overview

> The `XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator` creates a layered 2D triangulated mesh utilizing the [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) based on a given surface of a 2D-XY mesh. Aside from `XYDelaunayGenerator`, this mesh generator uses a series of utility methods that enable the existing MOOSE mesh generators to achieve the meshing tasks.

Reviewer: this is implementation and also it's not quite accurate?

the XYDelaunayGenerator is not created by this MG?

Author: Move the details to the implementation and make more clarification.

the boundary names of the both interface and surface boundary of the meshed boundary layer can be specified by [!param](/Mesh/XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator/interface_name) and [!param](/Mesh/XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator/surface_name), respectively. If not specified, these boundaries are not created.

If the input mesh is a 2D-XY mesh, it is also optional to keep the input mesh along with the meshed boundary layer by setting [!param](/Mesh/XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator/keep_input) to `true`. In this case, the input mesh and the meshed boundary layer are stitched together to form a single mesh. If not specified, only the meshed boundary layer is generated.

This mesh generator supports both linear and quadratic elements through the [!param](/Mesh/XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator/tri_elem_type) parameter. If not specified, linear elements (`TRI3`) are generated.

## Implementation Details

The `XYTriangleBoundaryLayerGenerator` creates a layered 2D triangle mesh along the specified 1D surface of a 2D-XY mesh. It uses several meshing utility methods:

> - `MooseMeshUtils::buildPolyLineMesh()`, which enables `GapLineMeshGenerator` , to generate the polyline mesh that defines the layer boundaries of the 2D triangulated mesh to be generated, which need to be parallel to the specified 1D surface of the input mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MooseMeshUtils::buildPolyLineMesh()`, which is also used by the `GapLineMeshGenerator` , to generate the polyline mesh that defines the layer boundaries of the 2D triangulated mesh to be generated, which need to be parallel to the specified 1D surface of the input mesh.
```

> - `MeshTriangulationUtils::triangulateWithDelaunay`, which enables[`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md), to generate the 2D triangulated meshes of layers. The generation of each layer uses the two neighboring polyline meshes as the input boundary and hole meshes, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MeshTriangulationUtils::triangulateWithDelaunay`, which is also used by the [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md), to generate the 2D triangulated meshes of layers. The generation of each layer uses the two neighboring polyline meshes as the input boundary and hole meshes, respectively.
```

Author: Use `which was refactored as a utility method from the original algorithm of [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md)` for clarity.

> - `libMesh::UnstructuredMesh::stitch_meshes()`, which enables [`StitchMeshGenerator`](/StitchMeshGenerator.md), to stitch the generated layered 2D triangulated mesh together as well as to stitch the layered 2D triangulated mesh with the input mesh if applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `libMesh::UnstructuredMesh::stitch_meshes()`, which is also used by the [`StitchMeshGenerator`](/StitchMeshGenerator.md), to stitch the generated layered 2D triangulated mesh together as well as to stitch the layered 2D triangulated mesh with the input mesh if applicable.
```
